Now with the basic routing working,
we got one clear issue.
At the moment we can only navigate
between those pages by changing the URL manually.
And whilst we, of course sometimes might do that.
And whilst we might share a link to a page,
it's all the pretty comments
that we want to have links on our page
which we can click, which will then take us somewhere else.
And therefore let's now have a look
at links and how we would add links to our page.
Let's say on our app JS file
we want to have a header above our main section.
And it's in this main section
where we wanna have the routes
and it's this header where we want to have the navigation.
And for this, of course
we could also create a separate component
in a separate components, folder components, and not pages
because this will be a component which is embedded
in JSX and not loaded as a route.
And in there we could have our main header component
or whatever you want to call it.
So as simple component, regular component function
as we created it multiple times
in this course already, and here, we then return our header.
And in there, we could have our navigation
with an unordered list with our different links.
That is a setup we could have here.
Now at the moment, we have two routes here, a welcome
and a products page and Henson does first list item.
We could add a link which leads to slash welcome
where we say welcome.
And then we duplicate this list item
and add a second link to slash products
which a load step products page
that is a basic navigation we could add here.
Now we can go to app JS and import our main header
from dot slash components slash main header.
And we just use it here
like this as a self-closing component.
Now we see this navigation here.
Now the styling is totally off.
We'll work on this in a second, but we can see
that we do have these two list items at the top here.
So our header is here.
And if I click them,
indeed we do navigate between those two pages.
But this approach has a big flaw.
And you can see this flaw.
If you take a closer look at the top left corner here
whenever I click these links,
you can see that does refresh icon turns to a cross.
And that means that we actually load a new page.
We send a new request.
We can see this even better.
If we opened the developer tools in India
we go to the network tab.
Whenever I click one of these items
you see that new requests are sent brand new requests
including a brand new request to a full HTML file.
This HTML file here is loaded.
Every time we click on one of these links.
So we do send a brand new request to the server.
Serving does app.
This works, we get the different pages, but it means
that we leave the active single-page application.
We start a new one.
When we click one of these links
we lose any application state that we might have
in this application.
And that is not ideal.
That goes against the idea
of building a single page application.
If we would be managing some cart,
some shopping cart for a user,
and we would lose all that state.
Whenever we navigate between pages
this would be a sup-optimal user experience.
So it would be better
if this browser default of sending a request
and requesting a new HTML page would be prevented
and we could write our own code for debt.
And we could add click listeners to these anchor tags
and prevent the browser default and manually
try to get react router to load the right component
but we don't need to do this manually.
Instead. There's a number of components which we can import
from react, router Dom, and that is the link component.
The link component does what the name implies.
It allows us to create a link.
Now we can replace the anchor tag with this link component
for both the opening and the closing tag
like this.
And we then have to replace the ref
attribute the ref prop here with the two prop
because this link component wants a two prop
which then holds the actual address we want to navigate to.
Now, if we do this and save this
visually we'll get the same output as before.
And if we inspect these links
we'll see that we still have anchor tags here
but these are now anchor tags rendered
by this link component and internally react router.
This package we're using will actually listen
to clicks on those links, prevent the browser default
and instead manually update the URL for us
so that it looks like if we switched the page
and it will then also change what we see on the screen.
So we have this fake navigation you could say
and that's what we want here.
Because now with that, if I click here
we still switched to page.
We still switched between products and welcome page.
But if you watch this top left corner and this refresh icon
you see that it never spins
simply because now we don't send new requests
and we can see this in the dev tools as well
in the network tab.
Now we don't see any requests being sent
because we don't send any
we stay on this load at single page application.
We don't lose any state.
And we still give the user the illusion
of switching between different pages
and there for we now also got this shareable URL
which will then lead us to the right page
when we enter it in the browser
and that is how we want to use routing.
We wanted to find our routes as we did it before
but if we are on the page and we want to allow
the user to navigate between these pages,
then we want to use this link component
instead of the standard anchor tag.